#### Author: Kevin Monreau
Federal navy ships are divided into several classes based on size, tonnage, and purpose. These range from short-range intra-system patrol ships like gunships, to massive capital ships carrying thousands of crew members and hundreds of fighters.  
## Gunships
Gunships are the smallest multi-crew warships in use by the Federal navy, though their size and range are limited enough that they are not considered proper “rated” warships. Gunships forego the heavy armaments, armour, and shields of their larger counterparts, focusing instead on speed, agility, and maneuverability. Gunships are included with a fast FTL drive; however, the reactor limitations imposed by the size of gunship’s along with their lack of endurance mean that gunships are poorly suited for interstellar travel, and their FTL drives are primarily used instrasystem. Instead, gunships are typically assigned to a single star system, conducting patrols or responding to local security threats.  
  
Gunships range in size from 30 to 50 meters, boast a usual crew complement of 8-10, and are armed with torpedoes and PDCs. Most designs usually feature a single, oversized main fusion torch engine, relying on this and their overly-powerful RCS thrusters for extreme maneuverability and agility in combat. Gunships are designed to take on threats like fighters and lightly-armed small vessels and while good for local security purposes, quickly find themselves outgunned by larger, more capable warships. Larger vessels may also carry one or two gunships inside them to serve as deployable escort ships on long-range missions.
## Corvettes
The smallest classification of ships to be considered proper warships, corvettes are upscaled and upgraded versions of gunships more suitable for extended, long range deployments. These ships are better protected and armed than gunships, and their larger size also allows for enhanced avionics, better crew accommodations, and more powerful subsystems to be installed. Corvettes serve as anti-fighter defenses and reconnaissance vessels in conjunction with frigates when assigned to a carrier battle group, or may be grouped together along with frigates into dedicated fast-reaction task forces.  
  
Ranging in size from 60-90 meters, corvettes are manned by a crew of 20-30 and are armed with torpedoes, PDCs, along with kinetic/DEW cannons. Corvettes take advantage of their speed and agility to deal with smaller threats such as light ships and fighters, and their main cannons provide some offensive measure against larger vessels.  
## Frigates
Frigates are the smallest class of multi-purpose warships, serving as light escorts and scouting vessels. They are more durable and more heavily armed than corvettes, and are capable of conducting long-range interstellar deployments independently, unlike corvettes and gunships. Frigates serve a variety of purposes within a task force, providing anti-fighter screening in conjunction with corvettes, ranging ahead of the main fleet to carry out reconnaissance and scouting with their advanced sensor suites, and taking on other ships in wolf pack flotillas, using their superior speed and maneuverability to evade fire.  
  
Frigates range in size from 130-180 meters, with a crew complement ranging from 40-80 depending on the class. Alongside the usual torpedoes and PDCs, frigates are also the smallest class of warship capable of mounting a spinal-mount cannon, which is usually a railgun or particle accelerator. Frigates are also large enough to justify the installation of a full, 6-axis engine suite alongside the normal RCS thrusters and are equipped with a flight assist module to deal with the increased mass, though it is often disable by pilots during combat for better maneuverability and agility. 
## Destroyers:
The primary workhorse of a task force, destroyers are large, well armed vessels designed primarily for anti-capital ship warfare. As such, they sacrifice the speed and maneuverability of their smaller brethren in favour of heavier shields and armour and more powerful weapons. Destroyers may also carry small complements of manned and unmanned fighters in their hangars, shuttlecraft for transporting onboard marine squadrons, or depending on the class of destroyer, one or two escort gunships internally. Unlike frigates and corvettes, which are tasked with picket and reconnaissance duties, destroyers are expected to carry the bulk of combat in any major fleet engagement, targeting lighter ships and other destroyers, or forming up into flotillas to engage larger dreadnoughts and carriers.  
  
Most destroyers vary in size from 330-400 meters, with a crew complement in the hundreds. Their main weapons are typically either a spinal-mounted mass accelerator or energy weapon, along with secondary broadside batteries, torpedoes, PDCs, and flak artillery. Destroyers are heavy enough that flight assist becomes a necessity in order to fly them, and as such, flight assist modules on destroyers cannot be disabled without modification.  
## Cruisers
The distinction between a cruiser and a destroyer is often blurry, with many ships classified as cruisers being on the same size and tonnage scale as destroyers, or even smaller. However, the defining feature of a cruiser is the presence of an onboard command and control facility, capable of coordinating the actions and movements of an entire fleet during combat. As such, cruisers boast many of the same characteristics and capabilities of destroyers, and it may be difficult to distinguish the two apart at first glance.  
  
The FNV Unity (FNRS-2452)  is classified as a heavy-cruiser due to its onboard C3 facilities and extensive internal compartments and additions not typically found on a purpose-built warship.
## Dreadnoughts
Dreadnoughts are the second largest class of ships in use by the Federal navy, dwarfed only by carriers. Ranging anywhere from 800 meters to a kilometer, the main firepower of a dreadnought comes from their spinal-mounted weapon, which runs down the full length of the ship. Heavily armoured and shielded and boasting an impressive array of weaponry, the dreadnought’s main disadvantage comes from their slow speed and maneuverability, leaving them vulnerable to swarms of faster, lighter ships. Additionally, while their main spinal-mounted cannon is a terrifying and devastating weapon, the entire ship must be turned to aim it leaving it unsuitable for close range engagements. As such, dreadnoughts typically stay at the rear of the fleet, relying on destroyers, escort ships, and fighters to screen them, and using targeting data provided by frigates and corvettes to aim their main weapon.
## Carriers
The largest class of ship in the Federal navy, ranging anywhere from 1-1.5 km, carriers tend to stay at the rear of the fleet like their dreadnought counterparts. However, instead of a devastating main cannon, the striking power of a carrier comes from the swarms of fighters they carry, which when armed with anti-ship torpedoes, are capable of inflicting significant damage on capital ships, or act as a screening force against lighter vessels, enemy fighters, and torpedoes. Carriers form the core of a carrier battle group, and are always escorted by destroyers and frigates. Larger groups may host multiple carriers, in addition to dreadnoughts and corvettes.  
  
A subclass of the carrier, escort carriers are both smaller and less capable than a full-sized fleet carrier, but are cheaper to build and maintain. Escort carriers are often assigned to large anti-piracy task forces, or used in situations where fighter cover is needed, but the presence of a a full carrier battle group is not warranted.